draft a new blog: ORAS 0.14 and Future: Empower Container Secure Supply Chain (#52)
oras-project/oras-www: docs/blog/oras-0.14-and-future.md

# ORAS 0.14 and Future: Empower Container Secure Supply Chain

_Feynman Zhou, CNCF Ambassador, Product Manager_

> The [OCI Registry As Storage (ORAS)](https://oras.land/) project maintainers announced v0.14 release for the CLI tool on Aug 22. ORAS v0.14 provides four new top-level commands and new options to manage supply chain artifacts across different container registries and multi-cloud environments. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [OCI Registry As Storage (ORAS)](https://oras.land/) project maintainers recently announced v0.14 release for the CLI tool. ORAS v0.14 introduces four new top-level commands and new options to manage supply chain artifacts across different container registries and multi-cloud environments. 
```

Reviewer: No need to commit my suggestions. You can add them directly to the source branch as I don't want to break DCO

> Prior to ORAS CLI v0.14 release, the ORAS Go library, also released v2.0.0-rc.2 to support [artifacts-spec v1.0.0-rc.2](https://github.com/oras-project/artifacts-spec/releases/tag/v1.0.0-rc.2) and provide new functions to enable developers to build your own OCI client tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prior to ORAS CLI v0.14 release, the ORAS Go library, also released v2.0.0-rc.2 to support [artifacts-spec v1.0.0-rc.2](https://github.com/oras-project/artifacts-spec/releases/tag/v1.0.0-rc.2) and provides new functions to enable developers to build your own OCI client tool.
```

As cloud native development continues to grow, we have seen increased community interest in evolving registries to natively store, pull, copy, and discover a graph of supply chain artifacts. Artifact references are important for many use cases such as adding Software Bill of Materials (SBoM), security scan results, and container image signing. 

This blog will demonstrate how to use ORAS v0.14 to copy an image from a validated artifact registry to personal conintainer registry, then attach a SBOM to it and discover the graph.

## Install ORAS 0.14

> Install the latest release of ORAS on a Linux machine:

Reviewer 2: This solves linux, should we point to a common install oras page in oras.land?
And, when, oh when can we apt-get/win-get install :)

```
curl -LO https://github.com/oras-project/oras/releases/download/v0.14.1/oras_0.14.1_linux_amd64.tar.gz
mkdir -p oras-install/
tar -zxf oras_0.14.1_*.tar.gz -C oras-install/
mv oras-install/oras /usr/local/bin/
rm -rf oras_0.14.1_*.tar.gz oras-install/
```

## Copy an image from Registry A to Registry B

In this demo, assume all images in are validated in MAR, so I will use ORAS to copy the container image from Microsoft Artifact Registry (MAR) to my personal repository of Docker Hub. You can use your prefered container registry with ORAS.

```

> ./oras copy mcr.microsoft.com/mmlspark/spark2.4:1.0.0 registry-1.docker.io/pengfeizhou/spark2.4:1.0.0

Reviewer 2: using `./oras` assumes it's in the same directory.
Can we change this to `oras copy` assuming the developer centrally installed it?

Reviewer 2: You shouldn't need registy-1 in the docker.io reference.
This should work
`./oras copy mcr.microsoft.com/mmlspark/spark2.4:1.0.0 docker.io/pengfeizhou/spark2.4:1.0.0`

Reviewer: I would redact the destination registry name in this example

```

## Using SBOM Tool to generate a SBOM

[SBOM Tool](https://github.com/microsoft/sbom-tool) is a general purpose, enterprise-proven, build-time SBOM generator open-sourced by Microsoft.

Install SBOM Tool on a Linux machine:

```
curl -Lo sbom-tool https://github.com/microsoft/sbom-tool/releases/latest/download/sbom-tool-linux-x64
chmod +x sbom-tool
```

Generate a SBOM for the Spark image stored in Docker Hub:

```

> ./sbom-tool generate -di registry-1.docker.io/pengfeizhou/spark2.4:1.0.0 -b ./foo -pn bar -pv 0.1 -bc ./foo -ps MyCompany -nsb http://mycompany.com

Reviewer 2: remove ./sbom-tool as it should install centrally
remove registry-1 from docker.io reference

Author: There is a bug related to this: https://github.com/oras-project/oras/issues/542
I will update it to `docker.io` after the 0.15 release.

Reviewer 2: Oh, that's unfortunate. 
On the first reference to registry-1, can you add: See https://github.com/oras-project/oras/issues/542 for removing registry-1?

```

## Attach the SBOM to this image

Attach the generate SBOM to this Spark image stored in Docker Hub:

```

> oras attach registry-1.docker.io/pengfeizhou/spark2.4:1.0.0 foo/_manifest/spdx_2.2/manifest.spdx.json --artifact-type example/sbom

Reviewer 2: love the `attach` command
Same comment about removing registry-1 from the docker.io reference.
